According to the Internet Society, Internet, unlike any other technology, can be whatever we make it. We can shape it. We can mold it. But most importantly, we can use it to connect people, communities, and countries all around the world.
With that being said, the Internet (shorthand for Internetwork) is a Global Information System with each nodes (i.e computers) being logically linked together by a globally unique address space based on the Internet Protocol.
It provides, uses, or makes accessible, either publicly or privately, high level services layered on the communications and related infrastructure described.
Simply put, the Internet is a global network of networks.

History of the Interneet
	Over 20 years ago, the use of the computer networking then known as the ARPAnet was
purely for US military and academic institutions only. In fact, the National Science Foundation’s
appropriate use policy forbids businesses to use it for their own. The original idea was that,
ARPAnet must be utilized anonymously – completely hidden from the public eye. Another
premise is that it’s supposed to be an indestructible computer communications network – if one
of the computers were to be disconnected, the whole network will not collapse and
communications would be preserved (Cockburn & Wilson, 1995).
	During ARPAnets’ growth, similar networks are being developed in a more businessoriented
direction. Still, these networks do not have access to the ARPAnet. There’s also an
argument stating that in order to be fully anonymous, that is, in order to be hidden from the
public, you must blend in with the public. And so the NSFnet (One of the two divisions of the
ARPAnet, the other one being the Milnet) and these commercial networks finally merged to form
what we now know as the Internet. According to Tetzeli (1994), 60% of the 25,000 networks
connected to the Internet is being run by businesses and is the main reason why the Internet is
rapidly growing.

Types

Wired :
 Wired networks uses actual physical connections. A wired network is a collection of devices that are linked together using Ethernet cables.

Wireless : 
Wireless networks uses electromagnetic signals or high-frequency radio waves to communicate between devices. Wireless networks allows you to share information without networking cables. 

Internet protocols
IP: IP stands for Internet Protocol.Internet protocol is the communication standard that is being observed by nodes connected together. IP addresses are used to identify each and every node. IP delivers packets from source to host in order for them to communicate over a network. 

IPv4: IPv4 stands for Internet Protocol version 4. IPv4 uses a 32-bit address scheme allowing a total of 2^32 addresses(4294967296 addresses)  

IPV6: IPv6 stands for Internet Protocol version 6.IPv6 uses a 64-bit address scheme. It was designed to be an upgrade to IPv4 because of the possibility that the demand for IP addresses will be more than what is available.




